---
layout: post
title:  "Accelerating seismic data access: reshaping seismic data into metadata"
date:   2019-12-08 01:12:32 +0200
categories: HPC programming
---

Seismic data management is facing continuous challenges with growing amounts of data while traditional storage technologies are not equipped to handle that volume with evolving workloads. Seismic data stored in a standard file consisting in a set of headers and wiggle traces, a trace being a time-series of waves’ amplitudes reflecting in the Earth. A seismic survey translates into hundreds of terabytes where existing parallel file systems on rotating media and SSDs today suffer from a number of issues causing performance degradations.

Closing the gap between memory and storage is possible using the latest byte-addressable technologies as 3DxPoint and object store like the Distributed Asynchronous Object Storage (DAOS) library. DAOS is an open source software-defined scale-out object store that provides high bandwidth, low latency, and high IOPS storage containers.  Unlike the traditional storage stacks, DAOS is extremely lightweight since it operates end-to-end in user space with full OS bypass. Its design shifted from files and directories hierarchy into objects and containers, avoiding POSIX bottleneck. It interfaces the persistent storage with a direct translation of user-visible object model into the underlying storage infrastructure and can be viewed as the next generation of parallel file systems.
 
Reshaping seismic data into metadata, maintaining both geometry and data access per trace, perfectly matches with object storage. Object storage is not widely used by the oil and gas industry as a standard parallel file system. We propose a new formulation of seismic format using DAOS which requires minimal to no changes to user applications and illustrate it with some preprocessing examples.

### Introduction:
